                                        Max Hospital - Pitampura - Delhi is one of the best hospital of Max Group and very superior private hospital among rest all. This is old and holding its own popularity because of having the best experienced, qualified, and reliable Doctors, Nurses and all most all staves who are found always dev...Read More
                                        From friends uncle I hear many thing about this hospital because he was suffering from hear problem since month and he refer to .Max healthcare I was with my friend for his help We are care of his uncle proper treatment or not but when we went there the hospital is so clean and looking great .Th...Read More
                                        Hello friends today I am share my persinol exprincs with my friends about a hospital that name is Max Hospital, Pitampuram, .Delhi.This Is A very good hospital.In this hospital specialization multi-speciality( dermatology) , minimally invasive surgery And more, It is hospital provide some amenit...Read More
                                        I am going to share personal experience with max hospital.yes I am sharing only real life experience, In delhi my some relations are also living,this event is before 4 month ago one day my uncle have to much fever and body tempreture is about 104 degree and also headache then we soon admit him a...Read More
                                        Max hospital is the best hospital I ever seen till yet. Best infrastucture, best hospitality, best care, best canteen, and many more. This hospital is not focus on making money, they only believes to keep the patient comfortable and get best care. The doctors of this hospital are very reliable a...Read More
                                        Although the infrastructure is good in manner all the departments are allocated in a well curtained manner but the thing is they all do care is for their money . Money is everything for them. even when the patient is admitted the formalities are too sustaining that a person would die paying thei...Read More
                                        When its Comes To Hospitality Its Not to Easy To Go any Hospital Blindly Because In the End Its Your Life You cant Take any Risk With Your Life Because It Priceless. I Went The Max Hospital When I was Suffred From Dengue And Even My Brother Broken Hand Operation Had On Max Hospital . ITs Too Exp...Read More
                                        Max Hospital Pitampura Delhi is very costly and not effective treatment this hospital. This hospital many charges entry charges registration charges & any others charges, this reason some patient not treatment in this hospital &  some patient die in this hospital because this is very cos...Read More
                                        Greetings folks They will first take cash for all the administration however when you will request benefit they will make face and treat you like that they are without giving administration to you. The patient affirmation division are liars they will request gift to concede quiet in spite of you...Read More
                                        Gone there for EYE CHECKUP, got to know about a fraud, the doctor Mr. Gyan Goyal.(His clinic at shalimar bagh on the back side of everbake).He basically sits in max hospital to get all the customers of max hospital to his clinic, he shares his card with them to get max's patients.they ar...Read More
                                        This hospital will suck your entire money as well as blood if you take your patient to this hospital. Completely money minded and most importantly they fudge the bills by showing wrong bills. My father was admitted there and the doctors kept him injected with sleeping dose so that he can be kept...Read More
                                        Dr Sanjay Sachdeva is a greedy man who is playing with the life of his patients just for money.Please read my experience with Dr Sanjay sachdeva to know the truth.My name is Ajay kumar singh and I belong to gorakhpur, I have a daughter who was attacked by Encephalitis disease on oct-2014...Read More
                                        I have suitable Title for Max Pitampura "Money Making Machine for promoters & Money Burning Machine for patients"I rushed my Dad to Max Pitampura for Hemiplegia, since near by Nursing home was not equipped to handle this situation & they would be shifting to Larger centre. So, I fina...Read More
                                        It is the place where staffs are more concern about the charges, registration, instead of taking care of patient . it doesn't matter to them whether you are in serious condition or taking your last remaining breath . they only try to maximize the bill without any effective service. I had very ve...Read More
                                        thanx for being there as a best helping hand I cud ever search out!my mother KALPANA was admitted on 16th may for open heart surgery.suggested by respected dr. K K TALWAR(pa: ms.Dipti) CARDIOLOGIST in MAX SUPER SPECIALITY HOSPITAL, saket .she was reffered to dr. RAJNEESH MALHOTRA(pa: van...Read More
                                        About Max Heath care Bathinda,as max health care owner / founder belong to  particular cast  and its impact is seen in its admin/nursing staff(all of them of that particular caste means parminder parminder parminder parminder parminder and parminder too)and  there behave toward patients also...Read More
                                        I was admitted for a DNS operation .which has made by life hell .since past 1 year .I am struggling for life as after DNS operation .Dr caused Skull Base Damage .and Total loss of Smell .leading to CSF leakage and meningitis.Then I got another operation for CSF repair from another Hospital .but ...Read More
                                        Does not live up to its name. Staff is very rude. Doctors are fine and they have some best services available for few cases but apart from that there is nothing in the hospital to be recommended to anyone. A person can feel harassed by insensitive attitude of staff right from security guards to ...Read More
                                        In emergency they tried to get me admitted without any check and just based on symptoms gave me vogue diagnose that did not appeared to be true after I insisted on check and ultrasound to be done. After I refused to get admitted since the doc himself told there is no urgency, they were hesitatin...Read More
                                        For the first time we had an encounter of an emergency situation as my brother's shoulder dislocated and we had to rush to the hospital. Since it was 2AM in the morning and any nearby orthopedic center or hospital wasn't open so we decided to go for the best option we had in our mind, MAX HEALTH...Read More
